
                   Installing Heyu on a Unix-like system.

(This file is duplicated as both INSTALL and README.INSTALL, in the
event your case-insensitive file system overwrites INSTALL with the
install script.)

Heyu requires a reasonable compiler (GCC works well), the 'make' program,
and the development header (.h) files.  Many OS distributions will either
install these by default or provide a visible option to include the
"development package" during OS installation.  But some of the newer OS's
do not, e.g., with Ubuntu Linux it's necessary to afterward execute the
command 'apt-get install build-essential'. 

Note: If you're upgrading from a previous version of Heyu, run 'heyu stop'
under that version before proceeding.

Quickstart:
    sh ./Configure  [option]   (As a normal user)
    make                       (As a normal user)
    su                         (Become superuser)
    make install 	       (As superuser)
    exit                       (Revert to normal user)
    heyu info		       (As a normal user, to test installation)

(The 'make install' requires that you have write permissions to
/usr/local/bin, man page, and other directories.)

Ubuntu Linux users should execute 'sudo make install' rather than
the three commands 'su', 'make install', and 'exit'.

*** Kindly report any compile errors or warnings to the author.***

It can take 5-8 seconds to set up the heyu_relay daemon and initialize
the CM11A interface the first time Heyu is run, e.g., with 'heyu info'.

Running 'heyu help' will display the long list of Heyu commands.
These are further explained in the man page heyu(1).

CUSTOMIZING
-----------
The Configure script creates a Makefile by running 'uname -s' and then
adding known good configuration options to the Makefile.  The contents
of Makefile.in is then appended to the Makefile.  Changes to the makefile
should be made in Configure or Makefile.in.

If Configure can not figure out what your system is, you can try
sh ./Configure generic
    or
sh ./Configure sysv

If those don't work, we'll have to figure it out by hand. Please contact
the author so your discoveries can be integrated into the next release.

SERIAL PORTS
------------
Many newer computers don't have built-in RS232 serial ports, only USB
ports.  For these computers a USB-Serial adapter is required to connect
the CM11A.  Before purchasing a USB-Serial adapter, verify that the driver
for your OS is available, either built-in to the OS, provided with the
adapter on a companion disc, or downloadable from the adapter
manufacturer's website.

If you have a choice, select an adapter with an FTDI chipset over one
with a Prolific chipset.  One dealer who specifies the chipset
and supported operating systems for each adapter model for sale is
ByteRunner (http://ww.byterunner.com).

Drivers for adapters with a Prolific PL2303 chipset can often be found
at http://www.prolific.com.tw/eng/downloads.asp?ID=31

For Linux, the serial device name for a USB-Serial adapter will normally
be /dev/ttyUSBx, where x = 0 for the first adapter plugged into the
USB port and higher numbers for subsequent adapters.

Note: The International 230V version of the CM11 sold in Europe and
elsewhere is now usually provided with a USB cable in addition to the
standard RS232 cable.  Many Linux users have experienced lockups and
other problem with this USB cable (based on a Prolific chipset) which
disappeared when they switched to a regular USB-Serial adapter.

OPTIONS
------- 
By default, Heyu allocates space for 32 common flags, 32 counters, and
32 user countdown timers.  The number of each of these can be increased
at compile time with switches -flags=NN, -counters=NN, and -timers=NN.
The specified NN must be in the range 1-1024 and will be rounded up to
the nearest multiple of 32, e.g.,

   sh ./Configure -flags=64  -timers=75

will allocate space for 64 flags and 96 timers, the latter because
the specified 75 is rounded up to 96.  The number of counters will
remain 32.
  
By default, support for the X10 CM17A "Firecracker" device is compiled
into Heyu.  As there is no known version of this device available which
transmits at frequencies other than the 310 MHz used for transceivers
in North America, users outside this region may wish to compile without
CM17A support. Since the CM17A is both powered and actuated by the DTR
and RTS serial lines, support for this device might as well also be
omitted if your serial port hardware does not support these lines.
To do so, run the Configure step mentioned above with the '-nocm17a'
switch, i.e.,

    sh ./Configure -nocm17a

By default, support for Extended Type 0 (Shutter and Shade) commands
is compiled into Heyu.  As there is only one module known to support
these commands (the 230V, 50Hz Marmitek SW10 Shutter Motor Controller
sold in Europe), this support may be omitted by using Configure with
the '-noext0' switch, i.e., 

   sh ./Configure -noext0

By default, support for RFXSensors is compiled into Heyu. RFXSensors
require a WGL W800RF32 or RFXCOM X10 RF receiver as well as a RFXSensor
transmitter.  This support may be omitted by including the '-norfxs'
switch with Configure, i.e.,

   sh ./Configure -norfxs

By default, support for RFXMeters is compiled into Heyu. RFXMeters
requires a 433.92 MHz RFXCOM X10 RF receiver as well as the RFXMeter
transmitter.  This support may be omitted by including the '-norfxm' switch
with Configure, i.e.,

   sh ./Configure -norfxm

By default, support for the Digimax 210 remote thermostat is compiled
into Heyu. The Digimax requires a 433.92 MHz RFXCOM X10 RF receiver as
well as the Digimax transmitter.  This support may be omitted by
including the '-nodmx' switch with Configure, i.e.,

   sh ./Configure -nodmx

By default, support for Oregon RF sensors is compilied into Heyu.
Oregon sensor support requires a 433.92 MHz RFXCOM X10 RF receiver
as well as a supported model of Oregon sensor.  This support may be
omitted by including the '-noore' switch with Configure, i.e.,

   sh ./Configure -noore

By default, support for signals received from KaKu and HomeEasy
transmitters is compiled into Heyu.  KaKu/HomeEasy support requires a
433.92 MHz RFXCOM X10 RF receiver.  This support may be omitted
by including the '-nokaku' switch with Configure, i.e.,

   sh ./Configure -nokaku

By default, support for RFXLAN RF receiver (network version of RFXCOM)
is compiled into Heyu.  This support may be omitted by including the
'-norfxlan' switch with Configure, i.e.,

   sh ./Configure -norfxlan


Notes for Mac OS X:
-------------------
The heyu executable is installed in directory /usr/local/bin, which
is not on the Mac's default PATH.  You will have to add this directory
to your $PATH.  Similarly you may have to add the man page directory
/usr/local/man to your $MANPATH (or the /usr/share/misc/man.conf file
for newer versions of OS X which have deprecated $MANPATH).

Newer Macs don't have an actual RS232 serial port, only a USB port,
and a USB/Serial adapter is required.  The manufacturer's adapter
driver will usually add two or more different devices in /dev
(and often with "usbserial" as part of the name).  You'll have
to experiment to see which one works with Heyu by trying the
different names in the TTY directive in the heyu configuration
file.  The device name which also includes "cu" rather than "tty"
has been found to work on the (few) Macs tested thusfar.


Notes for AT&T SysV r4:
----------------------
The function uname(1) used to determine the system type for
Configure does not distinguish this OS from other sysv systems.
Supply the system type parameter "attsvr4" to Configure, i.e.,
run 'sh ./Configure attsvr4'.

Notes for OpenSolaris:
---------------------
The directories in which the Heyu binary executable and man pages
are installed are set per the OpenSolaris system conventions to:
  BIN = /opt/heyu/bin
  MAN = /opt/heyu/man/man1
  MAN5 = /opt/heyu/man/man5
However for a virgin OS installation, none of these directories
are on the system's PATH/MANPATH and the user is responsible
for adding them to the PATH/MANPATH in order to have full use of
Heyu.

The user may alternatively rerun Configure for "OpenSolaris_BSD", i.e.,
  sh ./Configure opensolaris_bsd
which will set the directories using the BSD convention under
the /usr/local tree, which however may be deleted when OpenSolaris
is upgraded.

Some older versions of OpenSolaris, in particular SXCE (Solaris
Express Community Edition), may encounter an error when running
'make install' like "test: argument expected".  If this occurs,
change the first line of file install.sh to read "#!/bin/ksh".


  
