                     HEYU (version 1) Program overview

This program operates an X10 module via a CM11A computer interface. It is
based on the program X10 by Larry Cambell as modified by Paul Fox. All but a
few functions have been changed enough that they no longer interwork with
the original. I think this justifies issuing the program as 'heyu' instead
of 'x10'.

The program name comes from the old joke about having a 3rd person in the
house. Ida No was the one frequently blamed when things went wrong. In my
house it was the frequently heard yells of "Heyu! Turn off the lights!"
A poor joke, but I like it.

The program is strictly command line driven, and works well with crontab.
Crontab can be used to schedule events. You can also upload timers and
macros to the CM11's memory.

The program comes complete with source code, sample config files, MAN pages
an executable binary. The program has options to allow you to:

   * Get the date and time from the interface
   * Get information about current settings and module states
   * Turn an X10 module on or off
   * Dim or brighten an X10 module
   * Monitor all data sent to or from the CM11A
   * Get the status of intelligent X10 modules (rr501 for instance)
   * Set the X10 clock from the computer's clock (time and date)
   * Zero out the macro and event memory of the X10
   * Upload macros and timers
   * preset the dim level of advanced two way devices

As of version 1.27, Heyu has the ability to send a schedule of events to the
CM11A. This enables timers and macros.

The people at X10 have informed me that there is no way to download (to the
computer) the events stored in the CM11A. That being the case, I wrote
programs that will load the events and macros from local data files. This
will erase whatever has been stored there, but I guess that's the way it has
to be.

This should compile on any Linux system. It should also compile on any other
BSDish or SYSV system. Just edit the #define in the make file. Make install
will try to install the man page and the program. The makefile has defines
for these locations.

See the original README in Larry Campbell's program for some nice info on
the cp290 and the history of the program. See the original for some really
niffty uses using scheduling and macros.

There are two demo programs included with heyu, monit and x10biff.

   * The monit program will turn off your monitor based on idle time. It's
     the ultimate screen saver.
   * The x10biff program will flash a light to let you know that you have
     E-mail.

Daniel B. Suthers, CCP, CSP
12-31-1996
Updated 12-12-1999
E-mail: dbs@tanj.com
uucp: pacbell!daver!dansst!dbs
